[Durable Objects] Initial DO JS RPC docs (#13765)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/durable-objects/best-practices/create-durable-object-stubs.md

---
title: Create Durable Object stubs
title: Create Durable Object stubs & Send Requests
pcx_content_type: concept
weight: 16
weight: 2
---

> # Create Durable Object stubs

Reviewer: Same here. Consider renaming file when you change the title.

{{<definitions>}}

- `id` {{<type>}}DurableObjectId{{</type>}}

>   - An ID constructed using `newUniqueId()`, `idFromName()`, or `idFromString()` on this Durable Object namespace, for details see [Access a Durable Object](/durable-objects/best-practices/access-durable-object-from-a-worker/#generate-ids-randomly) .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - An ID constructed using `newUniqueId()`, `idFromName()`, or `idFromString()` on this Durable Object namespace. For details, see [Access a Durable Object](/durable-objects/best-practices/access-durable-object-from-a-worker/#generate-ids-randomly) .
```

{{</definitions>}}

## Requests

There are several ways to send requests to a Durable Object.

> - [Sending HTTP requests](/durable-objects/best-practices/create-durable-object-stubs/#send-http-requests) to a Durable Object's `fetch()` handler was initially the only method of communicating with a Durable Object.
> - Invoking Remote Procedure Call (RPC) methods defined on a Durable Object class as of [compatibility date 2024-04-03](TODO). If handling HTTP requests and responses is not required for your Durable Object, [RPC methods](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/) provide the developer experience of function calls on an instance of a JavaScript class.

Reviewer: This reads a bit like a changelog to me. I'd try and rephrase it to be a bit more timeless, if possible. Maybe something like:

```suggestion
- [Sending HTTP requests](/durable-objects/best-practices/create-durable-object-stubs/#send-http-requests) to a Durable Object's `fetch()` handler.
- Invoking [Remote Procedure Call (RPC)](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/) methods defined on a Durable Object class (available for Workers with a [compatibility date greater than or equal to `2024-04-03`](/workers/configuration/compatibility-dates/#remote-procedure-call-rpc)).
```

Author: HTTP first is for historical reasons. Eventually, we will default to RPC methods everywhere and should start here to draw developer attention

- Using the [WebSocket API](durable-objects/reference/websockets/).

### RPC methods

> To opt into RPC, a Durable Objects class should extend the built-in type `DurableObject`. Then, public methods on a Durable Objects class are exposed as [RPC methods](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/), which are callable from a Durable Object stub in a Worker. All RPC calls are [asynchronous](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/lifecycle), accept & return [serializable types](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/supported-types), and [propagate exceptions](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/error-handling) to the caller without a stack trace. See [Workers RPC](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/supported-types) for complete details.

Reviewer 2: Would be nice to add one line on what an RPC method (or methods) is at the beginning of the paragraph.

```ts

> export class Counter extends DurableObject {

Reviewer: You need the import statement here:
```suggestion
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class Counter extends DurableObject {
```

	async increment(amount = 1) {
    let value: number = (await this.ctx.storage.get("value")) || 0;
    value += amount;
    this.ctx.storage.put("value", value);
    return value;
  }
}
```

```ts
// A Worker calling a Durable Object
let durableObjectStub = env.COUNTERS.get(id);
let response = await durableObjectStub.increment();
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> Historically, the `ctx` object for Durable Objects has been given a variety of different names in example code, most commonly `state`. Until introduction of [RPC methods](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/), `state` was just the name of a Durable Object constructor parameter, so an application could use whatever name they wanted. With RPC, the `DurableObject` superclass defines these values as properties, so they must have official names. We have standardized on `ctx` for consistency between `DurableObject` and `WorkerEntrypoint`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prior to RPC, the `ctx` object for Durable Objects has been known as `state`. `state` was the name of the Durable Object constructor parameter, so an application could use any other name. With RPC, the `DurableObject` superclass defines these values as properties, so they must have official names. The Durable Objects team has chosen to use `ctx` for consistency between `DurableObject` and `WorkerEntrypoint`.
```
